
		Project Proposal
As a part of the course work , I will try to test a few features of the python library called algorithms.
The url to the library is - https://github.com/nryoung/algorithms
There are 8 modules under this library - http://algorithms.readthedocs.org/en/latest/
1)	Dynamic Programming
2)	Factorization
3)	Math
4)	Random
5)	Searching
6)	Shuffling
7)	Sorting

From the list of these modules , I would like to test Data Structures, Math, Searching and Sorting

I would first implement testing of Data Structures. 
In this , I would pass some random values and check if the property of the data structure is being maintained or not. Also , will try to pass null values or other undesirable values to check how the functions handle them.
Ex:- In Binary Search Tree , I would check if the right most node is the maximum element 
Print the level order traversal of a binary tree using queue.

The second module , Math. 
This module is used for performing some mathematical functions .
Ex;- CDF, GCD, Sieve of Eratotheness. 
This module can be tested by the output of the functions and with the expected output. 
Asserting the values. Also , the base values or values outside the acceptable ranges can be passed to the functions to check the error handling of these functions.

The third module I would be testing is Searching.
There are 5 search algorithms describes in the module. 
For each module , I will pass different set of values like empty values , values not in the list, or try to handle corner cases. Also , try to pass large values to check the complexity of the methods.
For searching in sorted lists, the output of the functions can be compared with the built-in python function ‘bisect’. 
The description about bisect function can be found here –
https://docs.python.org/2/library/bisect.html

The fourth module I would be testing is Sorting.
This would be tested by passing different kinds of unsorted lists . 
Lists sorted in reverse order, almost sorted lists, null list, entirely sorted list, list increasing and then decreasing , list contains duplicates.
These kind of lists would be passed to check if the output is in sorted order or not.
Also, I would compare the sorted list of these methods with the sorted list from the python built-in ‘sorted’ function.
The description about sorted function can be found here - https://docs.python.org/2/library/functions.html#sorted


